# Fe-Si
## Research into electrical steel
One of driving forces behind materials research is finding materials by which our society can save energy. Some obvious examples are the materials that are needed to build solar cells or LEDs. But saving energy can be hidden in other corners as well. Electric applications such as motors, transformers or generators all have a magnetic material in the core of their electromagnetic coil. Almost always, this is a so-called electrical steel: a Fe-Si alloy with about 3 wt.% Si. It is known since decades that using a steel with 6.5 wt.% Si would be very much advantageous. Such a steel would reduce energy losses in the application, which would make all electric machines lighter and more energy efficient. Estimates come up with a saving of several billions of euro worth of electricity every year, if every electric machine would use a 6.5 wt.% Si steel. Why don’t we simply use that ideal electrical steel? In contrast to 3 wt.% Si, the 6.5 wt.% Si steel is brittle: you can’t press or roll or otherwise form it into the size and shape needed to build the electric application. It would just break apart when trying to do so. Finding an electrical steel with 6.5 wt.% Si that is not brittle is since quite a while the holy grail in electrical steel research. 

There is a hypothesis about why the brittleness appears. Crystals with long range order are usually more brittle than crystals in which the atoms are more disordered. It is assumed that when increasing the silicon content, there is a stronger tendency for the atoms to develop short-range order. 

In this project, we'll hunt for ordered crystal structures that may be stable, and that would explain the brittleness. We'll do this by exploiting the advantage that ab initio simulations give full control over defining the crystal: We'll tell exactly where we want to have every atom, and quantum chemistry will tell us what is the internal energy that corresponds to such crystal. By modifying the positions of the atoms, and by monitoring the corresponding internal energy, we may find ordered crystals that are thermodynamically stable. Experimentalists have a hard time doing the same studies in the lab, as the thermodynamically stable ordered crystals that you may find may need a long time (days, months, years, even centuries) to develop. The atoms may need to overcome large energy barriers before they settle in their lowest- energy positions. That is why probably only a small fraction of a sample may show this type of order, enough to cause the brittleness, but too small to be easily detected by experimental characterization methods. There is an infinite number of ways to distribute the atoms. Who knows, maybe we'll be lucky enough to find the particular distribution that is energetically favourable, and that has been missed by all previous researchers.
